---
layout: post
title:  A hundred (or a thousand) new ways to join a union
description: Creating join forms and experiences for every eventuality
date: 2025-10-01 16:19:13 +0000
---

Join Together builds great join forms for unions, designed and tested to strike the balance between making it as easy as possible for members to join and capturing the information the union needs to make for a productive membership.

Initially our approach was to design a single form “flow” to cope with every foreseeable eventuality. The approach we use for this is one of “progressive disclosure” - a person applying to join a union only sees one thing at a time, and if they don’t need to see it, they simply don’t. It means that members join in the fewest steps possible and never see anything that’s irrelevant to their particular situation. 

For example, if you’re a student, unions generally need to know about your course and not a lot more. So why ask them to field a bunch of other questions about their job, salary and a range of other things that are in their future, but not in their present?

This works fantastically well, with high conversion and completion rates, and incredibly low support costs, but over the last couple of years, we’ve learned that we should evolve our approach to be even more specific to the member who's applying right now.

##Why?

In very many cases, when a union organises and recruits members, it already knows quite a lot about the people joining. It might know where (a workplace) and why (a particular industrial issue) someone is joining. It might be part of an effort to recruit new staff or students. It could know who is doing the recruiting (a specific organiser or branch). Or it could know how the prospective member will find their entry point (in their break room, via a leaflet, a link on the company intranet, a webinar, a conversation with a rep etc).

Because unions might know any of these things, we can now easily create joining experiences more exactly tailored to the recruitment opportunity. 

That's what our new “Custom:Welcome” forms do. You can pre-fill questions, skip them altogether, add custom language and (in the near future) customise the landing pages people see when they first click to join and the messages they get once they have. Bringing that all together, over time, you can now use Join Together to set up a customised form for every possible recruitment opportunity your union has.

We already build high-converting join forms for unions, but “Custom:Welcome" takes that a stage further. By tailoring the approach based on what a union knows about a prospective member, we create a series of individually *better* converting pathways through our join forms which, when combined, further improve your overall performance. That means more members – who "see themselves” as they join – recruited at lower cost. And because it’s still ultimately one form, changes are quick and straightforward.

To set it up, all we need to know is what you know already – how you recruit your members.

If you'd like a demo of “Custom:Welcome" and to discuss how Join Together’s products can help your union improve online recruitment, [get in touch to set up a call](mailto:hello@jointogether.online).

